Sorry, I had to debug this Prisma foul,
foul watching service for VS code.
So if it's not working for you in VS code,
it's not gonna be a deal breaker,
you'll just have to type
out the code yourself, but
it's really nice to
have this thing loaded.
I think it really just depends on if you
have some of the VS code setting set up to
where it saves automatically.
And I've tried to debug something that
seems a lot of people are still having
problems with that.
VS code.
Automatic saving stuff is
a wormhole to deal with.
But again, it's not needed.
You'll just have to type
out the code yourself.
It's not a lot of code real only
autocompletes one extra line.
So it shouldn't be that big of a deal.
Okay, so for right now we have
an artist that is type artists.
And we added this relationship,
the fields that belongs to artist ID.
The reason this isn't an array because
you can have multi filled relations, and
then it references the ID on the artist.
And then we need to add an artist
ID field that's a type integer.
And then for the artists it's the same
three fields that we have on everything
else plus now we have a songs
field that is a song array.
So it's an array of songs.
It's probably not the best place to
put all the songs on an artist but
depends on your View, it really depends
on how you need to query things.
Like I'm totally into
denormalizing schemas and
data if the UI needs it,
like I'm totally for that.
But again, I'm not some database expert.
I'm more of a product person
that's thinking like,
how can I make one API call and
get everything?
I'm not thinking like,
how can I save money on AWS?
So it's not now but I'm doing.
Okay, so we have an artist here
artists also has a name, so
we'll do that, make it a string.
We'll make it unique, we'll make it,
I think it's gonna help us create
stuff a lot easier if it's unique.
Artists also, we'll come back to that.
The next thing we need is a model for
a playlist.
And same thing, all three of these things.
And then a playlist also has a name,
which is a type of string, and
then a playlist also has songs.
So what I can do is this will actually be
like a many to many relationship where
a song could belong to many playlists and
playlists gonna have many songs.
So what I could do is I can
go to the song here, and
I could say, playlists like so
and make it a type play list.
Like that, so it's part of many playlists.
And then if your Autocomplete is working,
what it would have done is it
would have came down to the playlist
model and added a song filled with
a capital S I don't want that
actually wants to be called Songs.
I want it to be an array of
songs on one to many to many.
I'm gonna get rid of that.
And I don't think I need
this whole thing here.
I just need that.
So I have playlists,
which is an array of playlist.
And then I have songs which is
an array of songs that was it.
I don't need the whole relation
thing just but things in there.
So we got that.
And then a user can have playlist.
So we want the user to be
able to have a playlist, and
a playlist can belong to one user.
So we have a one to
many relationship here.
So I can go back to the user and
I can say you have playlists, plural.
And it's gonna be typed Playlist.
Somehow like that.
So I'm gonna save that.
And what that's gonna do is it's gonna
generate a filter on a playlist.
I'm just gonna type this out called user,
Its type it's User with a capital U.
And then we're gonna add a user ID filled.
Whose type is integer.
Oops, forgot the r.
And we do need the relations
decorator thing here
because it's not a many to many.
So for this we're gonna say at relation
fields or points of the user ID.
So we're referencing this field.
And that user ID is referencing
the ID of the user model up here.
So the sweet thing about
databases is that,
you're probably never going to
get it right the first time.
So you got to run tons of migration until
you finally get it right especially if
you add a required field and
you already have data in a database.
What do you do with the data
that was already there?
Typically you got to run a migration to go
through all that data and add the field or
you set a default, so
the defaults get applied at runtime.
So to get around having to do that all the
time Prisma has this thing called database
push which is almost the same as a
migration but it doesn't create a history.
So it's basically meant for prototyping
the schema without fully committing to,
I'm done now.
So what we can do when we're ready
it's kinda doing a git commit but
you didn't push it.
I'm gonna commit these changes but
I'm not gonna push them up yet
because I'm not quite ready.
When I push that means I'm ready.
So what we can do is we can say npx
prisma, you can do this at any time.
You don't have to get to the point
where I'm at npx prisma db push.
Once you push up,
you'll get some confirmation that
Prisma is in sync with your database
that you have deployed somewhere.
And then it'll say
generated a Prisma client.
What that basically means is like, hey,
we've notified the database
about these schema changes.
So now the schema are on your database,
so they understand it, and
we generated a client that client is gonna
be used for us to query the database and
it's gonna come with types
generated based off our schema.
So we'll have literally
an SDK created just for
our schema that knows about
all of our fields and
the types of those fields which
is really cool and we can use.
And because it's next to yes we can use
that on the front end and the back end, so
pretty dope.
So I would say, for now,
this seems like a good first draft.
I know we still need albums,
but we can come back to albums.
If we need to make albums.
We might not get to albums,
which is fine because it's really not
that an exciting feature to work on.
But these are the main core things.
This is gonna enable us to play
some music and have playlists,
which I think is probably
the most important part.
We did a lot of database stuff just now
I know there's a lot coming at you,
especially if you've never done any
database work, a lot of these new terms,
or this crazy stuff.
But I promise you, it's never been
easier to get started with a database.
And today I'm ever trying to learn about
databases ten years ago, I was like what?
This sounds like rocket science.
I don't understand what's going on.
You had to understand index strategies and
all this stuff.
Now there's so many tools that just
abstracted away from you where we
know as an industry that this
is the best way to do things.
So we're just gonna do it this way.
And it usually works for that 90% of the
time until you get to scale you're serving
hundreds of millions of users and you got
to go custom but for most of the time,
a lot of this stuff just kind of works for
you out of the box.
And again Prisma has really
good documentation so,
a lot of this stuff is actually on here,
it kind of walks you through a lot of this
stuff when I talked about those relations
if you wanna know more about that.
I'm totally down to talk more about that
if anyone wants me to talk about that so
like crazy to be talking many too
many it literally goes in and
talks about like how you do those
many to many relationships and
what they're for and
why you have them and stuff like that.
So it's it's pretty cool.
Okay, now that we have that, I'm actually
gonna go ahead and do our initial
migration which will basically confirm
the database changes that we made.
Like here are the changes that we want.
I think we're good, so this is like
a push, there's like a git push,
I'm gonna push these migrations up to the
database and be like, I'm totally good.
So now I can say npx prisma migrate dev.
The reason I want to do dev is because
I'm not ready to go to production yet,
which will be like a different database,
which we haven't made yet,
cuz we haven't deployed.
So I'm just gonna put dev I'm
gonna run this migration.
If it doesn't break, it'll say cool,
we migrated your database,
it's probably gonna ask for a name.
Here we go, saying, hey,
you're going to lose all the data.
Here's all the changes that you made.
So it's basically giving me like
a diff of all my schemas, right?
Literally just like a git push.
I'm gonna say yes,
I'm totally fine with that.
Please do that is asking for
a name for the migration.
Typically you give your migrations name,
just like you would a git
commit to describe what you
did on this database change.
I'm just gonna call this init is the first
time I actually did a migration.
So we'll call this the init migration.
Just like I would call my first
commit init and there we go.
You can see we made a new migration, it
created a file for that migration thing,
go check it out in a minute.
And then it also generated the Prisma
Client again to generate those types for
TypeScript based off of our schema,
which is gonna come in handy when
we start creating the database.
So now if we go look, you can see there's
a migrations folder inside of PRISMA.
It's got a migration file.
Right here based off this date And you
can see here all the changes I had to do
it wrote the SQL for
us which is really cool.
I've had to write these by hand before and
they're not fun I've literally
broken in APA production so
many times just getting this wrong.
So yeah, this is not fun at all and
the fact that they did it for
us is just amazing, in my opinion.
So really a big fan of that.
One of the best database
tools I've used in a while.
Cool, any questions on
the migrations there?
Now as we go forward,
we can make changes to the schema.
And we can just keep running db.push, and
it'll tell us if we need
to run a migration or not.
It'll detect a breaking change,
like, You added a field that was
required that requires a migration.
You deleted a field that was required
that requires a migration, or
we might do something that
doesn't require migration.
Just like cool,
you don't need a migration for this,
you just added a field
that wasn't required.
You don't need a migration for
that you're totally fine.
So it'll detect the breaking change,
which is extremely hard to do.
Trust me, the company that I started,
we literally had to do that on everyone's
schema that they created for
us and it was not easy to do.
It took me like seven months
to figure out how to do that.
So really hard stuff to do [LAUGH].
So I'm really liking the fact
that they have that for us.